Poem, feeling, perception, conceptions, and consciousness.
Those who know, we know, in the samsara level, we divided that and we did.
And among that, in the samsara, among that, all this palm feeling is so important, samsara.
We all completely kind of like relying on the feelings, feelings, feelings.
And what that feeling is, who is it analyzing, who is dividing, who is nominating that feeling?
Reality level is the mind, it's nothing else, feelings.
Have our mind decided, even it looks like outside, something kind of harsh and difficult to trouble
, it's okay.
It's not bad, it's okay, it's beautiful, actually.
Our mind is not accepting things as it is, and externally it's so beautiful, so nice, and so
perfect.
Our feeling is not good, we are suffering.
So, who really decided that? It's mind.
Mind is deciding that.
Everything is like with our habit and our mind is deciding, deciding.
So, then in the feeling level, how many feelings?
According to the teaching, there are six feelings.
Or, when there is a feeling, how many feelings? Good feelings, bad feelings, and neutral feelings.
And that is divided by with six concussions.
So, six different feelings, divided as three.
Good feeling of the eye, bad feeling of the eye, and the neutral feeling of the eye.
And, as well as then, a and a nose, and a tongue, and a body, and then mental states.
So, altogether, 18 different feelings.
So, this feeling is not outside, it's really coming, existing, it's only the mind is directing that
.
And habit, bad things are continuing to cling onto that.
Those great masters who got the Realization understand everything as a great enlightenment state.
Then, what is called, "economity states".
That's what is called "economity". One-taste Realizations.
This is not one-taste coming from outside, it's the inner-taste Realization that expresses.
Expressing all that.
And then, such as, as like, now, conceptions. Second, the most important is the conceptions.
Feeling, or maybe sorry, so perceptions.
Second most important ask for in samsara is perceptions.
Perception is ideas, beliefs, and traditions.
Those are so important. Second important in samsara is the perceptions.
We do so many things, everything is perfectly beautiful, but our perception is not correct.
We disturb everything, because we want the correct perceptions, or traditions, beliefs,
or these ideas, our way of thinking, way of life. All this we make so much emphasize on this.
Emphasize. And where that comes from, again, is the mind.
So, perception, feeling is the mind, and divided and ruled by the mind.
And perceptions is ruled by the mind. And mind itself is what? It's empty.
There's nothing substantial solid existing, but yet it rules everything.
Then, all the conceptions oppose mind. All is mind.
In the Buddha's teaching, there is 52 perceptions.
No matter what, even the numbers are, whatever how the conceptions are emanating,
but all is mind. All is mind. Then consciousness is mind.
Conscious mind. So that means whole. And then, poems are mind, which we discussed yesterday
in a code of Buddhism, is all through the habit of evidence, developed.
Poems. And everything, subject and object, and all that develop. A code of Buddhism.
And reality, also everything is empty. And for that reason, in hard subtle teachings,
poem is emptiness, feeling is emptiness, perception is emptiness,
conception is emptiness, consciousness is emptiness.
And they're not negation, empty, empty, blank, blank status.
All is also appearance. For those reasons,
gracious teacher, Buddha used, what in hard subtle.
Emptiness, the poem, emptiness, the feeling,
emptiness is the perception, emptiness is the conception,
emptiness is the consciousness. It's arising. This is the way the nature is.
But reality, whatever it is, is ruling our entire environment.
Everything is ruled by the mind in samsara. That's what we really always,
always, kind of like, accepting, rejection,
and all the difficulty troubles, or whatever this,
is all is going. And don't by this mind. Don't by nothing, but else.
Reality level, the principle, we're talking source,
the boss, or the really the troublemaker, and the ruler.
It rules everything of our, our, our entire,
entire. So that is really the mind now. And now,
we, we, and then now we think, thank you. And then nirvanas,
on a dharma level. All, everything what we talk,
again in dharma, such as ten bhimmis, if we look,
thinking of the ten bhimmis, is the mind. Ten bhimmis is the development of our
mental status. Path is development of our
realization of our mental status, strength.
And joy and appreciation is mind. Joy is mind. Appreciation is mind.
Respect is mind. Lowing kindness is mind. Compassion is mind.
All those analyzations, expressions, and divisions, and what our
teaching mentioned, all that is really mind.
Think that, I mean, this is what in the Buddha's teaching, you said,
in Buddhism, what do we call it? When you practice, we have to have the
confidence in the practices. Certainty, we have to have certainty,
confidence. We're establishing, exactly the way things are.
So later, in practice, we don't have to linger in cautioning,
doubt, and putting in courage and arguing again.
And this is also known as establishing the view
with analytics. You're looking thoroughly, exactly as is,
not just a kind of believing on what is said, but
analyze, this is important to do. So you see, now that, so that means
samsara is ruled by the mind and the rana is ruled by the mind.
All is mind. So that is, now that's how we understand it.
Mind is the principle on the relative level,
relative level, relative level of the samsara,
relative level of the dharma. Dharma, this mind, is so powerful and important
and a presence. Now, that mind, where is that mind?
That is known as then, singling out of the mind.
You're singling out the mind. Person, we believe, when we think, with our
thought, we can't really think. Mind, what we have,
actually, what we have, what ourselves, what in teaching said,
body, speech, and mind. These three, that's what we have.
Person, we think, and body and speech and mind
all together, kind of together. That's what really we think.
Without any kind of analyzation, we can't really think.
But at the reality level, these three things are
so different. They're not the same.
And what is body? Body is produced by our two elements from our parents.
Principally, that is what's developed, developed.
Anyway, it's also, it's metal, mass, M-A-S-S-A. It's mass, it's element.
And its mind is the element. Or mind is water, mind is fire, mind is wind,
mind is earth. No. It's completely different. And then you look,
you look in mind and body, you compare. And the body has all different features.
We have different features of the body. Or any different,
different veins has different features of the bones. Mind has any bones,
can see anything, bones, formation? No. Mind, and so therefore, and then also,
of course, we can, according to Buddhism, this body has
over 360 pieces of the bones, bones. And mind is not like that, we tend to
mind. So mind and the bodies are completely different.
They're not same. Same. Even we think it's kind of same,
all together. Together. So is it different?
Different. A mind is not with the body, and body is not the same as
a mind is not, not like, like body. Body is not like
mind. They are like different. Even they all are
together in here now, in these times. And then we think of the voice.
Voice is also, even though it's together, but it's not the same.
Mind and voice are same? No. Mind and voice are different.
Voice has a, we can analyze long, and short, and beautiful, and not beautiful,
and all those analyzation, voice we can, and different language, and so forth.
All that. The mind is completely different. It cannot divide, it cannot
analyze, cannot figure out any of those things
with mind. So it's really different. Totally different. So therefore,
mind, and again, voice, or the speech, is it different?
Different. And then what is this mind? Mind is, again, it's, mind is, even though
it's not kind of, cannot put in any of those categories,
and compare in any of those, as like, togetherness. But yet,
mind is rules everything, as I said so many times.
And that's what gracious teacher Buddha said.
Everything. If you like to make, or if we like to make happy,
we should work with the mind. If we like to make
peaceful, we should work with the palm. Peaceful.
That's what the gracious teacher, for example, Nagarjana said,
in his teaching set. And he said, or, I mean, he's writing letter to his friend
King, said, "Oh King, you should subdue, subdue
your own mind, and that will bring everything, peace, and happiness.
Because mind is the root of everything. Everything. And for that reason, also what,
in the Buddha teaching set, if we subdue the mind, then all those unwanted
things that we don't want, is completely naturally dissolved.
Naturally dissolved. And then mind is, goes to the front of
everything. Every activity we do is mind.
So mind is the really rule, mind is so important.
Therefore, the practice of the meditation and working with mind
is the most powerful, important that we can do
in these lives, that we can. Also this, what we develop with mind,
is not going to stay behind as a voice, as a body, when we depart
from this world. It comes, according to Buddhism, it will
come with you. Mind is always with you. Therefore,
whatever we develop with mind, it really will continue. It will
develop, it will benefit.
So those are analyzing in the more relative levels, how the mind is,
in a, like, in, in how important is mind, how is ruling is the mind,
and how are the distinctions of the between bodies,
mind, and now mind is completely kind of singled out.
We cannot single it out. First we see the mind is ruler of everything,
or does everything, and then we single out the mind.
Now the mind is none of those, what we think.
It's not with, it's not the body, it's not with voice, it's not the voice.
Now mind. And now when we think, think of this mind,
then we analyze the mind. Now that is, many of you know already,
and those are known as then looking to the mind of the, it is the past,
it is the present, and it is the future. You look to the mind.
And it's what in the Tibetan, in the teaching said,
"Chiongmi rosa," coming, if I talk that roughly, coming,
existing, and destination. This is what we are now going to look to the mind,
exactly how the mind is.
And we are going to be establishing the mind as it is.
We are going to try to behold the mind as it is,
as great Master Maha Ramaji said here, "Look to the mind."
We are going to establish the "Wu." That "Wu" is what it is.
It's exactly as it is. Exactly as it is.
We're going to "Wu" as it is. We're not going to "Wu"
it's not as it is. Wrongly "Wu." That is not going to benefit us.
Instead it's going to disturb us. So we're going to really
find out exactly that "Wu." We're going to look to this mind
and find out exactly as it is. Of course we know now, now kind of roughly
understand mind is emptiness. But when you understand the mind is
emptiness, what is that is known as in teaching?
It's intellectual. That intellectual is a correct intellectual,
but it's intellectual. Now we're going to go let
further, further than intellectual, really going to see.
Not just that I heard, I think, or I might be. That is not.
We're going to establish the "Wu"
called direct perception "Wu." "Wu" of the direct perception.
But it's not the past, not the future. Right in the now we're going to establish
the "Wu" or nature of the mind as it is.
That for that reason then we're going to put
including now again an analytical, an analytical
where mind is come from, or where mind was before.
But most and more and where mind will be future, where mind
future will be. Where is mind now?
Now. Or is in the teaching also more detail level,
what the teaching said. See, where, where mind stayed, or where
vast mind where it came from, and vast mind where it stayed, and vast
mind where it went. So that both subject and
object. Mind is like a subject and a place to stay, or coming from,
coming from, and a place to stay, and where it went as like
object. Analyze in three or six different ways.
Where it stayed, where, where it come from, where it stayed,
where it went. And what is past that mind?
What is that who stayed that mind what one stayed that what is that mind,
where that mind went. Kind of looking object level,
analyze the subject level, and object level.
So then you what you establish it. What do you find?
Each time when we question that, it's emptiness, simple to tell
emptiness or the speechless. There's nothing really to explain.
Anything.
And then the future, where mind, that future mind, where it's coming from,
where it's going to stay, where it's going to go.
And that mind, what that mind, where that mind,
and where that go.
So again six different ways in the future, subject and object level.
Because why are you doing this? Why are my teaching mentioned?
Because to make sure that that you really find
exactly as it is. Your own intelligence or our own intelligence.
You analyze that.
We heard so many times, mind is emptiness,
mind is speechless, mind is openness, mind is infinite. But now we are putting our
own intelligence. We see them to find out as it is.
So now we did past and the future. Now look to the present.
Where this present mind is sitting or came from.
Where is sitting now? Where this is going?
And again subject and object level, object level.
Now what we found? What really we can see? This is not, as I said, is believing.
Buddha said, "I'm going to believe that." This is not just believing.
And also not just going to be nice or I just going to
kind of think that. We're finding out exactly as it is.
And this is, when we are still there, it also can be known as
direct perception realization. Direct perception.
It's right now. It's not the past. It's not the future. You're looking to
your mind. Mind. When we look to this mind,
by mind, all looking to the lookers.
That always looks. So now we've got to find it.
Then it's totally what we, what Buddha said.
Exactly what Buddha said. When we aim at the getting,
it's merging. This is merging. What the scripture said.
When our women put it analytically, what we do
is find, exactly as it, then there is nothing more to doubt.
Nothing more to hesitate and really just be
as it is. This is also known as what? The great master. When you point
exactly as it is, great master, Garab Dorni said, pointing out
exactly as it is. Pointing out, exactly as it,
or introducing and pointing out, exactly as it is, is your own,
our own inner nature. This nature, what we're talking about, is not talking
about someone else. We're talking each of us, our own mind.
We discover exactly what as it is.
As it is pointing out of the discovery. It is our inner nature by our self.
It is own status. It is own, it is own status.
This is known as then, what also teaching said,
as still making the voo. This is voo now, voo. This voo,
when we meditating, what we meditating? We are maintaining that voo.
Meditation is not something different than the voo.
Therefore, what's called union of the voo and meditation.
Comment together, exactly as it is. What you voo, that you're maintaining.
You're keeping up that. That is. So, now you discover.
We find out, mind is emptiness.
Mind is emptiness, and emptiness is energy, or the
subcontainers are inherent. Exhales. Even those subcontainers
arise in energy.